In many organizations, network
communication travels over multiple
networks in different countries and
across different devices.
Data can get unintentionally sent and
stored in insecure places,
like personal email inboxes or
cloud storage platforms.
Users trust that their data is safely and
securely sent and stored.
And it's the job of security professionals
like you to help protect these
communications in transit and at rest.
Previously, you may recall learning how
to identify and secure critical assets
through security controls like data
classification and encryption.
Coming up, we'll expand on this topic and
examine how network traffic analysis can
be used to monitor network activity and
identify potential malicious activity.
So what is network traffic?
Network traffic is the amount of
data that moves across a network.
While network data is the data that's
transmitted between devices on a network.
Depending on the size of a network,
there can be a huge volume of
network traffic at any given moment.
For example, in a large,
multinational organization, there may
be thousands of employees sending and
receiving emails at any given time.
That's a lot of network traffic.
With such large volumes of
traffic being produced,
how do you know what's normal behavior,
or what's unusual and
requires investigation as
a potential security incident?
Imagine being stuck in unexpected traffic
during your regular drive to work.
And, as you move along, you realize
something unusual caused the traffic,
like a minor vehicle collision which
slowed down the expected flow.
On the road,
we have certain expectations about traffic
flows based on our commuting experience.
Peak traffic patterns like morning and
evening rush are normal and expected,
while abnormal traffic during
off-peak times reveals that something
unexpected has happened,
like a vehicle collision.
Network traffic works in the same way.
By understanding how data should
be flowing across the network,
you can develop an understanding
of expected network traffic flow.
By knowing what's normal,
you can easily spot what's abnormal.
We can detect traffic abnormalities
through observation to spot indicators
of compromise, also known as IoC,
which are observable evidence that
suggests signs of a potential
security incident.
Take, for instance, data exfiltration,
which is the unauthorized
transmission of data from a system.
Attackers use data exfiltration to
steal or leak data such as user names,
passwords, or intellectual property.
By observing network traffic, we can
determine if there's any indicators of
compromise, such as large volumes
of outbound traffic leaving a host.
This is a sign of possible
data exfiltration which can be
further investigated.
Understanding and
monitoring network traffic for
inconsistencies is an important aspect
of a security professional's job.
Coming up,
we'll explore what a data exfiltration
attack looks like in real-time.
Meet you there.